The arrow functions we've seen so far are already pretty compact compared to a regular function expression
where we have to write the word function but there's an even more compact way of writing some aero functions.
This only works in certain scenarios.
It's called implicit return.
Adding an implicit return to an arrow function means that you don't have to write the return keyword
itself and some scenarios you can write a one liner aero function.
So let's talk about when you can use this and how it works.
If I have a simple error function typing in the wrong area called Square I know it's a boring one.
It accepts a single parameter we'll call it n we return end times and this arrow function consists of
a single expression that we're returning.
We're not doing some other logic first we're not making a variable we're not adding a conditional.
We're simply returning an expression in scenarios where you have one expression that you want to be
returned.
You can rewrite this arrow function using parentheses instead of curly braces and if you do that you
can leave off the return keyword.
So we could rewrite this has const square equals and then parentheses and times and that's it.
You'll see if I even try and add return in there it gets highlighted with red squiggly of death telling
me expression expected not a return statement.
It wants just the expression and this value will be computed and returned.
So if I run it we'll do square of eight 64 square of 2 is 4 but we can make this even shorter by putting
it on a single line and we can do that in scenarios where it fits and it makes sense to put on a single
line.
We can leave off the parents.
I'll comment that version out and we can just do this right here.
So this is equivalent to what we had right here.
Writing an arrow function accepts a single parameter n and it returns.
And times and it's an implicit return.
We don't need those poor friends.
If we're putting it on one line but that doesn't mean we should always try and make everything on one
line.
If it's super long if it's hard to read put parents and just put it on a new line.
So if instead of returning n times n we had some array that we were trying to return based off of n
let's just say it was a long array like this.
This won't make sense to JavaScript.
None of those are valid identifiers or existing identifiers but if I had this this is a bit long for
a single line so we add those parents.
It's just a way of making it clear that this whole thing is the expression not just this one line but
let's go back to what we had before and times and make sure it still works.
Square off to square off seven forty nine.
It's working.
So this is a really nice feature when you need a simple error function which a lot of the time we do
need when we're using all of these callback methods we've seen for arrays for each.
Or map a lot of the time we just want a single short expression to be returned so we can use this one
liner syntax.
One less thing before we see some examples using array methods.
I'll just show you what happens here.
If we had some additional logic let's say we wanted to check if n is positive.
So if n is greater than or equal to zero let's just say it has to be greater than zero then we'll return
something return.
Let's do it the other way around.
If it's negative we'll return false.
This is a problem.
I have multiple expressions multiple lines.
It's not just multiple expressions I have statements.
I've got a conditional then I have this expression at the bottom.
This function does not know what it's supposed to return.
Javascript does not know what to return.
There's multiple things that it could return.
And this is an invalid aero function.
We can't do this if we're trying to use an implicit return we only get one thing one expression to return.
That way there is no doubt in JavaScript mind it knows this is the one thing to return implicitly.
Okay.
So let's see some examples now.
All right.
So I have a simple array of numbers.
If I wanted to double every name and map it into a new array I would call num stop map and without an
error function it would look something like this.
Function for and we want to return and times to end if we save that to a variable we'll call this numbers.
How about doubles.
1 we look at doubles one should be review.
I didn't run my code try that again.
We get 2 4 6 8 and so on.
If I wanted to use an arrow function instead I could do doubles.
2 equals num stop map and if we use a non implicit error function a regular aero function we would have
n and then return end times to refresh our code doubles to looks the same.
But we can make it even shorter with what we just saw doubles three equals num stop map.
We'll go with the parameter name of N N times 2 and that's it.
Much much shorter.
We don't have to add curly braces.
We don't need to add return.
We simply write an arrow function on one line when we have a single expression.
This works great.
Let's look at double three.
It looks identical.
So this is really nice.
And this is one of the main reasons this arrow functions were added in.
We use callbacks so frequently that there needed to be a nicer more compact syntax.
Remember later on there is another distinction between hero functions and regular functions.
We'll talk about that.
It has to do with a keyword.
This but we're not there yet.
Let's do another example where we map these numbers into an array where we have the values.
Even an odd string.
So we would have odd and then even and then odd as you can see here.
We would just alternate if I wanted to write that function or that map.
How about const parity list.
Parity is the term referring to if a number is even or odd.
I'm pretty sure that's what it's called anyway num stop map.
Let's use a regular function first function for an if and is mod 2 equals zero.
If and mod 2 is equal to zero we will return even.
Otherwise we return odd if we look at parody list we get odd even odd even all the way down.
Let's rewrite this with an arrow function so it will be similar.
We'll have num stop map and then end with our arrow and we could leave it like this and it still works.
We look at parody list but if I wanted to use an implicit return.
No dice.
At least not with this version.
We could rewrite this to be a one liner.
We were really just doing a simple if anyone else.
One condition.
If that's not true.
Do this instead.
Even or odd and we can use the ternary operator to do this in one line.
Remember we only get one expression here.
We have multiple.
This will not work if I try and rewrite it using parents.
We're out of luck.
If I replace those curly braces with poor friends javascript still does not like it and tells us expression
expected so we can rewrite it like this with the ternary operator.
If you remember this syntax and mod two equals zero question mark.
So if this thing we want to return this value even colon that means otherwise we'll return odd.
And this is a one liner.
This works.
Refresh look at parody list.
We're good to go.
And if you wanted to you could put this actually on one line instead of using prints.
We just bring it up like this.
It's a little long but I also have my font zoomed in a bit.
It's up to you if you want to do it on one line.
I think sometimes people go overboard trying to fit something onto one line just so they can say they've
done it.
It's easier to read this in my opinion but in a simpler example like this one here it makes a lot of
sense to put it on one line.
There's no reason for the extra lines and extra characters.
Okay so this pretty much concludes our little arrow functions interlude arrow functions are really really
useful.
They don't do anything that you can't do with a regular function at least with what we've seen.
They're just a replacement that is more compact.
So even in their most verbose form it's still shorter.
If you compare this to a regular function expression we don't have to write function.
We just write our parameter optional parentheses around it.
Remember that from the last video you can put parentheses there it's up to you and then the arrow curly
braces return something.
Or we can use an implicit return where we don't have to write return but we can only have a single expression
in the body of the function.
And if it doesn't fit on one line like I don't think this one fits very well you can use parental to
wrap it.
But it still needs to be a single expression.
Okay so that's.
Arrow functions now will pick back up with more of those built in array methods.